[MUSIC]
My name is Nikki and
I'm a security engineer at Google.
I am part of the insider threat detection
team at Google, so my role is more focused
on catching insider threats or insider
suspicious activity within the company.
My first experience with cybersecurity
was when I was interning at the aquarium.
I learned a lot of network security there,
they had a lot of phishing attempts,
of course, you know, at the aquarium.
My manager was really focused on making
sure that our networks were secure and
I learned a lot from him and that really
sparked my interest in cybersecurity.
The main reason I chose to pursue a career
in cybersecurity is just how flexible
the career path is.
Once you're in security, there's so
many different fields you can dive into.
Whether it's through the blue team,
protecting the user or
the red team, which is just, you know, poking
holes in other people's defenses and
letting them know where
they're going wrong.
A day in the life as a entry-
level security professional?
Um, it can change day to day, but
there's two basic parts to it.
There's the operation side,
which is responding to detections and
doing investigations.
And then there's the project side where
you're working with other teams to build
new detections or
improve the current detections.
The difference between this entry-
level cybersecurity analyst and
an entry-level cybersecurity engineer
is pretty much that the analyst
is more focused on operations and
the engineer,
while they can do operations,
they also build the, the detections and
they do more project focused work.
My favorite task is probably
the operations side doing investigations
because we can sometimes get something
like this actor did such and
such on this day.
And we're supposed to then dive
into what they've been doing,
what they've been working on to figure
out if there's any suspicious activity or
if it was just a false positive.
One of the biggest ways I've made
an impact as an entry-level cybersecurity
professional is actually working
on the playbooks that, um, our team uses.
A playbook is a list of how to go
through a certain detection, and
what the analyst needs to look at in
order to investigate those incidents.
I was really proud of those, those playbooks
that I've made so far because a lot of my
teammates have even said how
helpful they've been to them.
If you love solving problems,
if you love protecting user data, being at
the front lines of a lot of headlines,
then this is definitely the role for you.